Course Objectives
1. To provide necessary knowledge on data manipulation and to perform analysis on
the practical problems using a programming approach.
2. To generate report and visualize the results in graphical form using programming
tools.
3. To learn and implement R programs for data science.

Course Outcome
Upon completion of the course, the student will be able to
1. Engrave and use R language to solve problems.
2. Design a suitable form for analysis from real-time data.
3. Formulate insights from the data through statistical inferences.
4. Evaluate and visualize the results, analyze the performance of the models.

Module:1 Functions in R 
Programming with R- Running R Code - Including Comments - Defining Variables,
Functions -Built-in R Functions - Loading Functions - Writing Functions - Using Conditional
Statements.

Module:2 Vectors and Lists 
Vector - Vectorized Operations - Vector Indices - Vector Filtering - Modifying Vectors, Lists -
Creating Lists - Accessing List Elements - Modifying Lists- Applying Functions to Lists with
lapply().

Module:3 Data Wrangling 
Understanding Data - The Data Generation Process - Finding Data - Types of Data -
Interpreting Data - Using Data to Answer Questions - Data Frames - Working with Data
Frames -Working with CSV Data.

Module:4 Manipulating Data with dplyr and tidyr 
Data Manipulation - Core dplyr Functions- Performing Sequential Operations -Analyzing
Data Frames by Group - Joining Data Frames Together - dplyr in Action: Analyzing Flight
Data- Reshaping Data with tidyr -From Columns to Rows: gather() - From Rows to
Columns: spread() - tidyr in Action: Exploring Educational Statistics.

Module:5 Accessing Databases and Web APIs 
An Overview of Relational Databases -A Taste of SQL-Accessing a Database from R -
Accessing Web APIs -RESTful Requests -Accessing Web APIs from R -Processing JSON
Data -APIs in Action: Finding Cuban Food in Seattle.

Module:6 Data Visualization 
Designing Data Visualizations - The Purpose of Visualization - Selecting Visual Layouts -
Choosing Effective Graphical Encodings - Expressive Data Displays - Enhancing Aesthetics
- Creating Visualizations with ggplot2- A Grammar of Graphics - Basic Plotting with ggplot2 -
Complex Layouts and Customization - Building Maps- ggplot2 in Action: A case study.

Module:7 Interactive Visualization in R 
The Plotly Package - The Rbokeh Package - The Leaflet Package - Interactive Visualization
in Action: Exploring Changes to the City of Seattle.